
Thank you so much, Mohamed for your thorough review. Especially all that
tightening of text around my redundant verbose side sentence redundancy verbosity.
It is always hard to see those myself, but these reviews should help next docs
to become tigher from the beginning.

Wrt to some of your notes:

- Better explained in the beginning of 1.1 what the doc is about. Pls. check.

- OAM {functions, procedures, operations} -> OAM. As i think that is what you suggested.
  Still use terms like OAM protocols, OAM devices and the like.

- Changed wording in section 2.1 re NAT (-> workaround, not recommended but potentially necessary).

- Re your question about:
  "Note that even though the ACP only uses IPv6, it can and should be
  used to provide stable connectivity for management of any network:
  IPv4 only, dual-stack or IPv6 only."

  This sentence was added as response to shepherd review from Sheng who thought it would
  not be clear that the use of ACP would equally apply if the actual network services
  desired would only be IPv4. I tried to rewrite the sentence without changing the intent
  of it, but hopefully make that point clearer.

- What are "logical names" in section 2.1.1. I did add two sentences to explain this better,
  the example was actually bad. This was actually part of discussions with enterprise customers
  that know their IPv4 address space inside out, just in case you think this sounds crazy ;-)

- "IPv4 to IPv6 NAT can be used." - Do you mean RFC7915
  I intentionally did not want to elaborate on the details of which of the 15? different
  NAT options can be used best. When i worked on this, i got a working setup with NAT-PT and i think
  also NAT64 statefull (RFC6146). This was mostly driven by whatever old router OS versions
  where available.Also your note re. rfc7757. The main issue is that the stateless translations would
  require matching address structures in he ACP, and i certainly would not want to fudge the ACP design
  to support NAT better. Rather use some horrific NAT option. That should even accelerate pushing IPv6
  into NOC/OAM equipment. 

  So, i didn't add any pointers to those RFCs you mentioned. I think its good if this is
  left as an exercise to the reader ;-)

- "I’m afraid NoO "  - i did not get that.


